# HeFTy GOF Plotter
## Intro
This is a brief code that allows HeFTy results to be plotted in a slightly more complex way than the thresholded values provided by default. Instead of magenta being coded to "good" Goodness of Fit (GOF) values and green to "acceptable", it plots a weighted average of the "acceptable" paths according to their actual values using a color ramp, and shows each of the "good" paths as bright yellow (the top of the color ramp). This approach allows the user to determine which acceptable paths are better supported by the data.

The code reads in the raw Tab-delimited Text File (.txt) produced by HeFTy when right-clicking on the inverse modeling Time-Temperature History results and choosing Export→Save as Text. The output is by default the matplotlib user interface window, though the image can be resized, labels changed, and figure saved at high dpi with simple changes in the code, which are noted by the commenting.

The test.txt is a test file to make sure that the plotter is working for you. It was produced using a quick HeFTy inverse model of an apatite helium datum with uncorrected age of 10 ± 1 Ma. The output from this should look like the test_result.png image in the repository.

## Statistical Background
The combined GOF is calculated using Fisher's method. Briefly, this works by taking the individual GOF metrics as p-values, summing their natural logarithms and multiplying by -2 to generate a chi-squared statistic with 2N degrees of freedom where N is the number of combined GOFs. This chi-squared statistic is converted to a single p value. As of 11/3/2021, the [wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisher%27s_method) on Fisher's method provides a nice summary of the principles behind this method. A more detailed review of methods of combining p values may be found in [Heard and Rubin-Delanchy, 2018](https://academic.oup.com/biomet/article/105/1/239/4788722?login=true).

By default, only the "acceptable" paths are plotted using this method. The "good" paths, with a GOF metric of >0.5, are all shown in orange. The rationale behind this threshold is that, given the probability distribution described by the uncertainties given to HeFTy, any path with a GOF value of >0.5 is at the limit of staistical inference with regards to your data. In the context of HeFTy, where time-temperature paths are being tested against a dataset with specific uncertainties, the "good" paths are those where, given a resampling of your data using their uncertainties, there is a 50% chance that the path would provide a worse fit. In this way, the 0.5 GOF level is the limit of statistcal inference for HeFTy given the uncertainties inherent in the data. We therefore do not distinguish the "good" fit paths.

#### This default setting can be overridden in two ways:
The user can change the variable `good_vs_acceptable` to False, in which case the "good" fits will be plotted using the same color as the best acceptable fits. There is a logic to this as a path with GOF of 0.51 should not be strongly preferred over a path with a GOF of 0.49. The downside to this approach is that the visibility of individual lines may be reduced if lots of lines are present.

The user may also change the range of the color map from the default HeFTy values of 0.05 and 0.5 (the variables `minimum` and `maximum`, respectively). If no "good" paths are produced this way, all paths will plot within the colormap. There are fairly complex statistical ramifications to doing this, so as the HeFTy manual put it "Only expert users should ever consider changing such things."
